# Hidden-Markov-Models-and-Part-of-Speech-Tagging
In this assignment, you will use Brown corpus which has got all the words tagged with a PoS tag. You will use this corpus in order to train a hidden Markov model for PoS tagging. Therefore, for any given sentence, your program will be able to find the PoS tag of each word

Task 1. You will load the entire corpus by taking each line as a sentence with its PoS tags.
Brown corpus consists of several files. You have to read all of them. Each sentence is in the
form of “word/pos tag” (fire/nn means that the word ‘fire’ has the tag ‘nn’ –which is noun, the/at
means that the word ‘the’ has the tag ‘at’ –which is article).
Task 2. You will build your hidden Markov model by initializing the internal variables:
1. The initial tag probabilities p(ti ): the probability that a sentence begins with tag ti
2. The transition probabilities p(ti+1 |ti): the probability that tag ti+1 is seen after the
tag ti
3. The emission probabilities p(wi |ti): the probability that token wi is generated by
tag ti .
BBM 497: Introduction to NLP Lab.
ASSIGNMENT II
Handed out: 24.03.2017 Handed in: 14.04.2017
Task 3. Your program will assign the most probable tags for the input tokens taken from the
input_tokens.txt. Remember that the assignments are based on argmaxi p(wi | ti ).
input_tokens.txt file will include only a sequence of words which are all seen in the training
corpus. A sample file format is given below:
Your output will be in the given format:
Task 4. You will implement the Viterbi algorithm in this task. Your Viterbi method will find the
path with the highest probability by looking at all the possible tag sequences. Your Viterbi
algorithm will consists of two steps:
1. You will compute the probability of the most likely tag sequence.
2. You will trace the back pointers to find the most likely tag sequence from the end to
the beginning.
Input and output format will be the same as the input/output file format given in the previous task
(Task 3). The name of your input file will be test_set.txt.
